# What is MARS?

**MARS** or the **Modular Adventure Role-playing System** is free a [generic role-playing system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generic_role-playing_game_system). One player (the Game Master or GM) describes the events that occur, while the other players (the characters) describe the actions they take. Difficult actions may require dice rolls to determine their success, with some tasks being more difficult than others. Many roleplaying games typically use [dice notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dice_notation) to describe what dice to roll, while MARS uses a modified version of dice notation called [roll value](/Core_Rules/Introduction#roll-value). MARS can be played in various genres, and has optional variant rules to suit your group's playstyle.

#### Learning to Play

The first chapter, [Introduction](/Core_Rules/Introduction), is a great place to start with learning the rules of the game. Once you have learned the rules and are ready to create a character, you will need to follow the steps as outlined in the fourth chapter of the core rules: [Creating a Character](/Core_Rules/Creating_a_Character). In the sidebar there are links to information on the various character features (such as ancestries, backgrounds, and archetypes), as well as equipment, to help with this process. For additional minor details there is also the appendix section with a [glossary](/Appendix/Glossary), [expanded tables](/Appendix/Expanded_Tables),<!-- a [changelog](/Appendix/Changelog),--> and other information (also in the sidebar).

For those that want more advanced rules systems there is an entire subsection for optional rules designed to expand various parts of the game's systems available in the sidebar. For example: [Character Flaws](/Extended_Systems/Character_Flaws) is a ruleset that allows you to give characters drawbacks in exchange for additional starting experience to expand your character's natural abilities during character creation<!--, or [Epic Characters](/Extended_Systems/Epic_Characters) which is a ruleset that allows you to extend the limits of character advancement to play more powerful characters as demigods or super heroes by providing more experience as rewards and increasing the maximum limit of stats and skills-->.

#### Contributing

If you would like to contact me or help improve the game please see the [contact information](/Contact_Info) page. I am also available to do freelance work on designing custom content or adapting existing content. You can also send me a donation on [Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/lkodinsson) to help support me financially. If you would prefer to create your own content please see the [licensing](/License) page.<!-- For existing works created by the community check out [this](/Community) page.-->